Q1. What is an API? Give an example, where an API is used in real life.
Ans. API- APIs are used in web applications to connect user-facing front ends with critical back-end functionality and data.
     APIs are used to deliver material by streaming services such as Spotify and Netflix.
    
    
Q2. Give advantages and disadvantages of using API.
Ans. Advantage- 1.Quicker Release. GUI tests have a reputation for taking longer to release products. 
                2.Better Test Coverage. 
                3.Ease to Shift Left. 
                4.Faster Bug Fixes. 
                5.Reduced Testing Costs. 
    Disadvantage- 1.API load testing does not simulate real users interacting with elements of your webpage.
‌                  2.It doesn't measure front-end performance or how quickly pages render in different browsers.
                  3.It doesn't give you an idea of how user-friendly your application is. 

Q3. What is a Web API? Differentiate between API and Web API.
Ans. Web API- A Web API is an application programming interface for the Web. A Browser API can extend the functionality of a web browser.
     Differences- 1.Both APIs and web services are technologies that enable the transfer of data between separate software applications. 
                   API is an interface that exposes an application's data to outside software, whereas web applications are one type of
                   API with stricter requirements.
                  2.Web service is used for REST, SOAP, and XML-RPC for communication, while API is used for any style of communication.
                  
                    
Q4. Explain REST and SOAP Architecture. Mention shortcomings of SOAP.
Ans. REST and SOAP Architecture- Representational State Transfer (REST) is a software architecture style for building scalable web services.
          REST services typically communicate via HTTP and are built using XML and JSON. 
         Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) is a protocol specification for exchanging structured information to implement web services. 
        
        
Q5. Differentiate between REST and SOAP.
Ans. 1.SOAP stands for Simple Object Access Protocol whereas REST stands for Representational State Transfer.
     2.SOAP is a protocol whereas REST is an architectural pattern.
     3.SOAP uses service interfaces to expose its functionality to client applications while REST uses Uniform Service locators to access to 
        the components on the hardware device.
    4.SOAP needs more bandwidth for its usage whereas REST doesn’t need much bandwidth.
    5.SOAP cannot make use of REST whereas REST can make use of SOAP.
