Question 1.Who developed Python Programming Language?
Answer: Guido Van Rossum.

Question 2.Which type programming does Python support?
Answer: Object-oriented programming & structured programming.

Question 3.Is Python case sensitive when dealing with identifiers?
Answer: Yes,Python is case-sensitive language.

Question 4.What is the correct extension of the Python file?
Answer: .py

Question 5.Is Python code compiled or interpreted?
Answer: python is a interpreted language

Question 6.Name a few blocks of code used to define in Python language?
Answer: Indentation and Braces are usd to define a block of code in python

Question 7.State a character used to give single-line comments in Python?
Answer: #
    
Question 8.Mention functions which can help us to find the version of python that we are currently working on?
Answer: sys.version

Question 9.Python supports the creation of anonymous functions at routime,using a construct called____-
Answer: Lambda

Question 10.What does pip stand for python?
Answer: PIP stand for Preferred Installer Program

Question 11.Mention a few built-in functions in python?
Answer: type(),sum(),max(),range(),len(),min(),int(),str(),float() etc.

Question 12.What is the maximun possible length of an identifier in Python?
Answer: 79

Question 13.What are the benifits of using Python?
Answer: Benifit of python are...
       1-Easy to understand = less development time.
       2-High level language.
       3-Portable-Works on linux / windows / mac etc.
    
Question 14.How is memory managed in python?
Answer: Memory in Python is managed by Private heap space. All Python objects and data structures are located in a private heap.

Question 15.How to install Python on windows and set path variables?
Answer: Python can be easily installed from python.org When you click on the download button, python can be installed right after
        you complete the setup by executing the file for your platform.
    
Question 16.Is indentation required in python?
Answer: Yes, indentation is use to indicate a block of code in python.
